# dna
website for <https://dna.willjasen.com>

some people might ask, “why?” - and i say - "because why not"

i've done lots of various things within the open source community, albeit things that aren't always surfaced and visible to most. i like to ponder about technology and its impact on ourselves and the planet, from its largest scales down to the miniscule. i have chosen to open source nearly all of the personal development projects that i've worked on throughtout my life, and applying the same principle, i thought it a neat idea and sometimes topic of discussion to take the data generated by submitting an at-home dna test for analysis and releasing that data to the public and wider world, for free - open sourcing a bit of myself in a sense. as this blurb of writing in january 2025 stands, i have only come across two others who have chosen to do this same thing.

while i have done this of my own accord after giving such an action deep and critical thinking, i have full expectations that other people would never be as eager solely given that there are acute societal concerns (rightfully so) revolving around data privacy, and what could be more initimate and closely held that the information that makes you who you are. if you, as the reader, are considering performing such an action yourself, i applaud your forward thinking and bravery, but keep in mind that releasing such a dataset like this isn't to be taken lightly. there could be consequences to doing so for both yourself, others around you, and those related to you, and these consequences may happen many decades after the initial release commitment. should you choose to take this step, you are making a statement, one that i cannot necessarily describe from your lips, but the manifesto i submit for myself here is to be different & unique, to consider what the future far along may hold, and to set an example in the hopes that you too can feel what i feel & and see the world i see.

---

this genomic data was generated as a result of a 23andme test performed in 2013

the file is formatted as tab-separated values (typically has a file extension of .tsv); the file is in plain-text and is not compressed for security & trust reasons

it is available via ipfs here:
https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmNotd3CsD6pqV69YKjtvbRfA5DbkynaMoaDNuU334CM1M

---

someone else who was brave enough  - [0x77dev](https://github.com/0x77dev/dna)
